# Battleship

In this lab, we implemented a version of the game Battleship using Verilog and FPGA. We implemented the game such that the player can toggle the location of a ship, represented by a single highlighted segment on the seven-segment display, using buttons. They can also use the buttons to select the location they would like to attack on the opponent’s map. We used VGA to display the state of the game, including which of the player’s ships are safe or destroyed and which of the computer’s segments have been guessed.

The rules of our modified Battleship game are simple. The game is divided into two phases: select phase and game phase. In the select phase, the player can select any four of the 28 segments in the seven-segment display to place their ships. This is slightly different from an ordinary game of Battleship, where the board is a grid and the ships come in various lengths. In our version, the board is simplified and all ships are one segment long. The computer also determines the locations of its four ships automatically before the game phase begins. The game phase starts immediately after the select phase. Here, the player and the computer take turns guessing the location of the enemy’s ships. A correct guess will be represented by a red segment on the VGA map of the player whose ship has been hit. On the other hand, an incorrect guess will be represented by a blue segment on the VGA. The first player to correctly guess all four of the enemy’s ships is the winner. Upon completion of the game (i.e. all four ships of either the computer or player have been guessed correctly by the opponent), the board resets to its initial appearance.

We chose to implement Battleship for our final project because we felt it was challenging enough, yet doable within our timeframe. Our interactions with the seven-segment display in the previous lab inspired us to do something related to the display, while the VGAs are necessary to communicate the many states of the segments that need to be displayed in the game. There was also potential for aesthetic enhancements, such as using joysticks or displaying specialty end-of-game screens if we were able to finish our core implementation ahead of schedule.
